docs: starting to fill out the plugin golden path (#30925)
backstage/backstage: docs/golden-path/create-app/local-development.md

---
id: local-development
title: 002 - Local development
---

Your Backstage app is fully installed and ready to be run! Now that the installation is complete, you can go to the application directory and start the app using the `yarn start` command. The `yarn start` command will run both the frontend and backend as separate processes (named `[0]` and `[1]`) in the same window.

```bash
cd my-backstage-app # your app name
yarn start
```

![Screenshot of the command output, with the message webpack compiled successfully](../../assets/getting-started/startup.png)

Here again, there's a small wait for the frontend to start up. Once the frontend is built, your browser window should automatically open.

:::tip Browser window didn't open

When you see the message `[0] webpack compiled successfully`, you can navigate directly to `http://localhost:3000` to see your Backstage app.

:::

> You can start exploring the demo immediately.
> 
> ![Screenshot of the Backstage portal](../../assets/getting-started/portal.png)

Reviewer: Do we need this? Otherwise maybe we reword it to something like

```suggestion
Once its spun up, you should see something similar to the below.

![Screenshot of the Backstage portal](../../assets/getting-started/portal.png)
```

## Architecture of local development

:::note Deploy architecture

This section only touches on local development, we'll walk through what a Golden Path production architecture looks like in the `deployment` Golden Path.

:::

Now that you have that running, let's talk through what you just set up. You have 2 commands running as part of `yarn start` - the website that is stored at `packages/app` and the backend stored at `packages/backend`.

The website listens on port `3000` by default. It's a React app with some extra flavor to provide strong plugin-friendly defaults. For local development, we use `webpack` for fast compilation and near-instant feedback.

> 

Reviewer: Just wondering is this accurate with stuff like https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/29490 going on? Maybe @Rugvip can confirm, bit of a black box for me.

Author: oh nice, that merged! I'll update!

The backend listens on port `7007` by default. It is a NodeJS app that has among other things an HTTP server through `express` and talks to a database.

Locally, we use `sqlite` for the database. This is a fast in-memory database that is perfect for local development. Because of its ephemeral nature, you shouldn't rely on the database to keep data across `yarn start`s. We _do_ however, maintain the database across hot reloads.

> 

Reviewer: I feel like we could go two ways here, the simple and easy and just say use `sqlite` or we could "expand" a bit and say you could also use a `docker-compose` file and spin up a pg container 💭
